Company policies checklist for new hires | Workable

Here’s a company policies checklist to help you cover all the basics new hires should learn:

Compensation policy. Present your company’s compensation policy. Make sure to cover:
Payroll schedule (e.g. at the end of each month or biweekly)
Ways to receive paycheck, if applicable (e.g. via direct deposit, mail or in-person) 
Legal terms about overtime pay, if applicable
Job performance-related bonuses 

Employee leave policy. Mention the types and number of leaves that employees are eligible for. Also, describe how to request time off (e.g. send an email to managers or submit a form through an internal system.) Time off could refer to:
Paid time off (or vacation days)
Unpaid time off
Days when the company doesn’t operate (e.g. bank holidays)
Sick leave
Parental leave
Special occasions (e.g. jury duty)

Performance review policy. Describe your company’s performance review process. Explain: 
The purpose and frequency of employee performance appraisals (e.g. quarterly)
Your performance appraisal software (if applicable)
Topics you usually cover (e.g. quantitative results)
Your goal-setting process
Less formal methods to collect and share feedback (e.g. regular 1:1s)

Workplace regulations. Provide an overview of important workplace rules. These could include:
Daily schedule (times of arrival and end of workday)
Breaks (e.g. lunch)
Personal workstation management (e.g. locking drawers)
Internet usage for personal matters
Parking restrictions, if relevant 

Workplace safety policy. Explain all measures you take to establish safety in the workplace. For example:
Show where emergency exits are located in the building
Go over basic guidelines for security (e.g. how to use access tokens)
Describe your visitors policy  

Employee confidentiality policy. Discuss confidentiality rules and data protection procedures. Particularly, if your new hire will handle sensitive data, mention: 
What kind of information is considered classified
How to share and store important documents (whether physical or digital)
How to secure computers and the office
 
Benefits overview. Describe what’s included in your perks and benefits package. Make sure to provide necessary forms hires need to complete and manuals that explain terms in detail. Employee perks and benefits could include:
Health and life insurance plan
Stock options
Mobile plan 
Use of company car 
Bonus options
Wellness programs

Remote work policy. Explain your policy for remote work and flexible working hours, if you have one. Cover: 
How to request work-from-home days (e.g. via email or internal HR software)
Employee obligations while working remotely (e.g. employees need a strong Internet connection)
Out-of-office best practices (e.g. employees should work in a private, quiet space and be available via the company’s messaging app)
Any limitations (e.g. employees can’t work remotely during the launch of a new product)

Employee travel policy. Describe your travel policy, if relevant. Provide the basics and make sure to offer a refresher before a new hire’s first business trip. Cover: 
Frequency and timing of travel (e.g. for company events or quarterly meetings with distributed team members)
Travel expenses you cover
How to reimburse expenses 
Documents employees need for travel (e.g. passport and visa)

Employee development and education policies. Mention training and development initiatives you offer employees. This could refer to:
Regular trainings your company conducts (related to the new hire’s position)
Conferences and workshops
Resources (e.g. books and subscriptions)
Online courses 
Education budget 

