Employee Cell Phone Policy
This Employee Cell Phone Policy is ready to be tailored to your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies. The cell phone company policy may also be referred to as a no mobile phones at work policy or a bring your own device (BYOD) policy.
Policy brief & purpose
Our employee cell phone policy outlines our guidelines for using cell phones at work.
We recognize that cell phones (and smartphones especially) have become an integral part of everyday life. They may be a great asset if used correctly (for productivity apps, calendars, business calls etc.)
But, cell phones may also cause problems when used imprudently or excessively.
Scope
This policy applies to all our employees.
Policy elements
Despite their benefits, personal cell phones may cause problems in the workplace. Employees who use their cell phones excessively may:
Get distracted from their work.
Disturb colleagues by speaking on their phones.
Cause security issues from inappropriate use of company-issued equipment or misuse of our company’s internet connection.
Cause accidents when they illegally use their phones inside company vehicles or near areas where using phones is prohibited.
Our company expects employees to use their cellphones prudently during working hours.
We advise our employees to:
Use company-issued phones for business purposes only and preserve them in perfect condition.
Surf the internet, text and talk on the phone only for a few minutes per day.
Turn off or silence their phones when asked.
We won’t allow employees to:
Play games on the cell phone during working hours.
Use their phones for any reason while driving a company vehicle.
Use their cell phone’s camera or microphone to record confidential information.
Use their phones in areas where cell use is explicitly prohibited (e.g. laboratories.)
Speak on their phones within earshot of colleagues’ working space during working hours.
Download or upload inappropriate, illegal or obscene material on a company cell phone using a corporate internet connection.
How to properly use cell phones in the workplace
Employees can benefit from using cell phones. They’re allowed to use their phones:
To make business calls.
To use productivity apps.
To check important messages.
To make brief personal calls away from the working space of colleagues.
Employees can use their phones during breaks or at lunch hour and while on a stationary vehicle.
Disciplinary Consequences
Our company retains the right to monitor employees for excessive or inappropriate use of their cell phones. If an employee’s phone usage causes a decline in productivity or interferes with our operations, we’ll ban that employee from using their cell phones.
Employees may face severe disciplinary action up to and including termination, in cases when they:
Cause a security breach.
Violate our confidentiality policy.
Cause an accident by recklessly using their phones.

