Accessibility company policy
This Accessibility Company Policy template is ready to be tailored to your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies.
Policy brief & purpose
Our company’s accessibility policy outlines our provisions for people with disabilities. We want to make our premises, services, products and equipment available to all people respecting their individual needs, dignity, independence and equal opportunity.
Scope
This policy applies to all prospective or current employees of the company, as well as contractors and visitors, who possess a disability of any kind that restricts them in various ways.
Policy elements
We have taken actions to ensure that people with disabilities will be able to move about safely and easily and make full use of our facilities.
Disabilities that this policy refers to include but are not limited to:
Conditions that require the use of wheelchair or other movement support device or mechanism
Physical impairments that obstruct everyday activities (e.g. opening doors, walking up the stairs, reading signs etc.)
Visual, hearing, speech or mental impediment
Conditions that require assistance or constant medical care.
Other conditions are subject to company’s judgement and will be considered individually.
We have several provisions for people with disabilities. We have:
[Implemented accessible formats in our everyday communication (e.g. screen reader friendly website.)]
[Placed ramps at specific spots to facilitate the movements of wheelchairs.]
[Reserved parking spots for people with disabilities.]
We allow assistive devices, service animals and support persons to be in our company's premises for as long as their services are needed. In areas where animals are prohibited either by law or because of company policy (e.g. in laboratories), we will have a sign and receptionists or other employees are obliged to inform people with disabilities.
We encourage anyone who encounters any problems, malfunctions or deficiencies to report them to their immediate supervisor or HR. 

