Company travel policy
This company travel policy template is ready to be tailored for your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies.
Policy brief & purpose
Our company travel policy outlines our provisions for company-related travel. We’ll explain which expenses we’ll reimburse and how. We’ll also give instructions to our employees to track their expenses correctly when traveling.
Scope
This policy applies to all our employees. In this policy, we refer to ‘travel’ meaning a business trip to a different city than the one you’re in. We’re also counting any car, train or bus trip that lasts longer than an hour.
This policy doesn’t refer to traveling to and from the office on a daily basis for work. We reimburse commute expenses based on each employee’s contract or agreement with our company.
Policy elements
As our employee, you may need to travel for company purposes. This includes trips to:
Meet with clients or partners.
Attend events, like conferences, where you’ll represent our company.
Visit our company’s offices in other locations.
Conduct research or give talks/ lectures/ presentations on behalf of our company.
For this kind of travel, we’ll reimburse transportation and accommodation expenses, as well as per diem expenses.
Legal/ medical expenses
If you need to travel to countries that need a visa or other documentation to enter, we’ll cover all relevant expenses (excluding expenses for issuing passports). The same applies to medical expenses, like medical insurance for travelers, vaccinations or examinations. We’ll pay all these costs directly, you won’t need to do anything.
Medical care fees due to travel-related accidents may be covered by workers’ compensation insurance. If not, we may partially or fully reimburse you for your medical expenses.
Transportation expenses
When traveling for company purposes, you’re entitled to company-paid plane tickets in [premium economy class]. Executives can travel in [business class]. Should you need to travel by another means of transportation (train, boat or coach), you’re entitled to a [premium] seat. We’ll reimburse two-way tickets, meals (as included in the ticket price) and one luggage, plus a carry-on in case of a plane trip. You should cover additional expenses, like extra luggage or purchase of duty-free items, on your own.
Your travel must be booked at least [two weeks] in advance unless it’s an unforeseen trip. Talk to our [office manager/ HR generalist/ finance manager/ etc.] and they'll book your tickets directly. They must ask your manager for written approval first. Then, they’ll collaborate with you on booking the appropriate transportation at convenient times depending on the purpose of your trip.
If you have a reason to book the transportation on your own (for example, in order to collect bonus miles on your personal card), discuss this with your manager. You’ll need their approval for the fares you’ve chosen, ensuring they’re not unnecessarily expensive. To receive a reimbursement for these expenses, [submit them to our expenses software].
If you plan to travel by car, we’ll reimburse all gas and toll fees. We’ll also pay a maximum of [$100] for expenses during your trip for food, non-alcoholic drinks or other necessities. Keep all receipts and [submit them to our expenses software].
Local transportation
When arrived at your destination, you can take taxis to move around the area for business purposes. Always ask for receipts and we’ll reimburse fares for traveling:
From airport/ stations to your hotel and back.
To and from every place you go for company purposes (like conference halls, lunches with clients or client offices).
We won’t reimburse transportation expenses for trips to museums or other places for personal purposes.
If you prefer to use public transport, buy a ticket (either one-way or multiple-days if applicable) and [submit the receipt to our expenses software].
You can also rent a car if you plan to do many trips within the city (for example, if you're planning to see a large number of customers). In these cases, you can either talk to our [office manager/ HR generalist/ finance manager/ etc.] so they can rent a car for you or you can rent your own from the city you'll travel to (you must buy insurance too). Keep in mind, we'll only reimburse fees for a rental car that's [compact, two- or four-door, automatic transmission, petrol-fueled.]
Accommodation
When traveling for company purposes, you’re entitled to stay at a [3-star hotel or the best hotel available in the area]. Our [office manager/ HR generalist/ finance manager/ etc.] will book the room for you and pay for your stay. We might have negotiated a contract with a hotel to achieve a discount. If you plan to stay longer for personal reasons, you’ll need to pay for the additional stay yourself, but you may be able to take advantage of the discount. Ask our [office manager/ HR generalist/ finance manager/ etc.] to let you know.
We won’t reimburse any extra room-related charges incurred. We may make an exception if you need to upgrade your room for reasons outside of your control (for example, a malfunction that makes your room unsuitable and there’s no room of equal cost available). In this case, you should contact our [office manager/ HR generalist/ finance manager/ etc.] immediately so that they find the best solution and arrange the payment.
If you want to stay at a more expensive lodging for a particular reason (like to be closer to family who lives close by), you’ll need to pay the difference yourself.
Traveling with a non-employee
Our policy allows you to share a company-booked room with a partner, friend or family member who wants to travel with you, as long as this doesn’t incur extra charges for our company. For example, if we’ve already booked a room for you that has enough space, you can host your partner, friend or family member. Keep in mind that you’ll be financially responsible for any expenses or damages this person incurs.
We won’t reimburse any expenses for your co-traveler for the entirety of the trip. The only exception is taxi fares which don’t depend on the number of people on the ride.
Expenses while on a trip
During a business trip, you’re entitled to reimbursement for lunch and dinner at a maximum of [$20] per meal. We’ll reimburse only your own portion of the bill if you’re traveling with a non-employee, so make sure to separate your bills or ask for separate receipts.
When it comes to meetings with clients (like dinners), we’ll reimburse the whole of the bill including tips. The most senior employee participating in the meeting should pay the bill and submit the expenses for reimbursement. We count on you to place reasonable orders. If you exceed [$150] per person for one meal, you must get approval from our [CFO] to expense the cost.
What you need to do
We ask you to use your best judgment when traveling for company purposes. Don’t go overboard with spending on food and drinks. Always ask for receipts and keep them organized.
When you’re back from your trip, submit all expenses to our expenses software within [two months]. If you had a reason not to submit expenses within that period, talk to your manager. They’ll be the ones to approve your expenses for reimbursement. You’ll receive the money with your next paycheck after your manager approves.

