Employee confidentiality policy
This Employee Confidentiality Policy Template is ready to be tailored to your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies.
Policy brief & purpose
We designed our company confidentiality policy to explain how we expect our employees to treat confidential information. Employees will unavoidably receive and handle personal and private information about clients, partners and our company. We want to make sure that this information is well-protected.
We must protect this information for two reasons. It may:
Be legally binding (e.g. sensitive customer data.)
Constitute the backbone of our business, giving us a competitive advantage (e.g. business processes.)
Scope
This policy affects all employees, including board members, investors, contractors and volunteers, who may have access to confidential information.
Policy elements
Confidential and proprietary information is secret, valuable, expensive and/or easily replicated. Common examples of confidential information are:
Unpublished financial information
Data of Customers/Partners/Vendors
Patents, formulas or new technologies
Customer lists (existing and prospective)
Data entrusted to our company by external parties
Pricing/marketing and other undisclosed strategies
Documents and processes explicitly marked as confidential
Unpublished goals, forecasts and initiatives marked as confidential
Employees may have various levels of authorized access to confidential information.
What employees should do:
Lock or secure confidential information at all times
Shred confidential documents when they’re no longer needed
Make sure they only view confidential information on secure devices
Only disclose information to other employees when it's necessary and authorized
Keep confidential documents inside our company's premises unless it's absolutely necessary to move them
What employees shouldn't do:
Use confidential information for any personal benefit or profit
Disclose confidential information to anyone outside of our company
Replicate confidential documents and files and store them on insecure devices
When employees stop working for our company, they're obliged to return any confidential files and delete them from their personal devices.
Confidentiality Measures
We'll take measures to ensure that confidential information is well protected. We'll:
Store and lock paper documents
Encrypt electronic information and safeguard databases
Ask employees to sign non-compete and/or non-disclosure agreements (NDAs)
Ask for authorization by senior management to allow employees to access certain confidential information
Exceptions
Confidential information may occasionally have to be disclosed for legitimate reasons. Examples are:
If a regulatory body requests it as part of an investigation or audit
If our company examines a venture or partnership that requires disclosing some information (within legal boundaries)
In such cases, employees involved should document their disclosure procedure and collect all needed authorizations. We're bound to avoid disclosing more information than needed.
Disciplinary Consequences
Employees who don't respect our confidentiality policy will face disciplinary and, possibly, legal action.
We'll investigate every breach of this policy. We'll terminate any employee who willfully or regularly breaches our confidentiality guidelines for personal profit. We may also have to punish any unintentional breach of this policy depending on its frequency and seriousness. We'll terminate employees who repeatedly disregard this policy, even when they do so unintentionally.
This policy is binding even after separation of employment.
 

