Sample Business Dress Code Policy
This Employee Dress Code policy template is ready to be tailored to your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your company dress code policies.
Policy brief & purpose
Our dress code company policy outlines how we expect our employees to dress at work. Employees should note that their appearance matters when representing our company in front of clients, visitors or other parties. An employee’s appearance can create a positive or negative impression that reflects on our company and culture.
Scope
This policy applies to all our employees.
Policy elements
These dress code rules always apply:
All employees must be clean and well-groomed. Grooming styles dictated by religion and ethnicity aren’t restricted.
All clothes must be work-appropriate. Clothes that are typical in workouts and outdoor activities aren’t allowed.
All clothes must project professionalism. Clothes that are too revealing or inappropriate aren’t allowed.
All clothes must be clean and in good shape. Discernible rips, tears or holes aren’t allowed.
Employees must avoid clothes with stamps that are offensive or inappropriate.
What is Business Dress Code?
Our company’s official dress code is [ Business/ Business Casual/ Smart Casual/ Casual. ]
We may change our dress code in special cases. For example, we may require employees to wear semi-formal attire for an event. Then, both male and female employees should wear suits, ties, white shirts and appropriate shoes. Our company may also introduce [dress-down Friday] when employees can wear more casual clothing like jeans, simple blouses and boots. This won’t apply if employees are meeting with clients, partners and other external parties.
An employee’s position may inform their dress code. If employees frequently meet with clients or prospects, they should conform to a business dress code.
Disciplinary Consequences
When an employee disregards our dress code, their supervisor should reprimand them. The employee should start respecting our dress code immediately. In some cases, supervisors may ask employees to returning home to change.
Employees may face more severe consequences up to and including termination, if:
Their appearance causes irreparable damage, like loss of a major client.
They repeatedly violate our dress code.
 

