Workplace harassment policy sample
This Workplace Harassment Policy template is ready to be tailored to your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies. A Workplace Harassment Policy may also be referred to as an Anti-Harassment, Employee Harassment, Sexual Harassment or Racial Harassment Policy.
Policy brief & purpose
Our anti-harassment policy expresses our commitment to maintain a workplace that's free of harassment, so our employees can feel safe and happy. We will not tolerate anyone intimidating, humiliating or sabotaging others in our workplace. We also prohibit wilful discrimination based on [age, sexual orientation, ethnicity, racial, religion or disability.]
Scope
This workplace harassment policy applies to all employees, contractors, public visitors, customers and anyone else whom employees come into contact with at work. For more details on how to recognize, report and deal with sexual harassment and harassment from outside our company, please refer to our sexual harassment policy and our third party harassment policy.
Policy elements
What is the definition of harassment in the workplace?
Harassment includes bullying, intimidation, direct insults, malicious gossip and victimization. We can’t create an exhaustive list, but here are some instances that we consider harassment:
[Sabotaging someone’s work on purpose.]
[Engaging in frequent or unwanted advances of any nature.]
[Commenting derogatorily on a person’s ethnic heritage or religious beliefs.]
[Starting or spreading rumors about a person’s personal life.]
[Ridiculing someone in front of others or singling them out to perform tasks unrelated to their job (e.g. bringing coffee) against their will.]
Sexual harassment is illegal and we will seriously investigate relevant reports. If an employee is found guilty of sexual harassment, they will be terminated.
How to address harassment
If you’re being harassed, whether by a colleague, customer or vendor, you can choose to talk to any of these people:
Offenders. If you suspect that an offender doesn’t realize they are guilty of harassment, you could talk to them directly in an effort to resolve the issue. This tactic is appropriate for cases of minor harassment (e.g. inappropriate jokes between colleagues.) Avoid using this approach with customers or stakeholders.
Your manager. If customers, stakeholders or team members are involved in your claim, you may reach out to your manager. Your manager will assess your situation and may contact HR if appropriate.
HR. Feel free to reach out to HR in any case of harassment no matter how minor it may seem. For your safety, contact HR as soon as possible in cases of serious harassment (e.g. sexual advances) or if your manager is involved in your claim. Anything you disclose will remain confidential.
Disciplinary Consequences
Punishment for harassment depends on the severity of the offence and may include counseling, reprimands, suspensions or termination.
 

Further reading:
Sexual Harassment (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission)

