Employee Parking Policy
This Employee Parking Policy sample is ready to be tailored to your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies. May also be called Company Parking Policy.
Policy brief & purpose
Our parking company policy outlines our parking provisions for employees and visitors. We 'll explain our criteria for allocating parking space and establish rules for using our parking premises.
Scope
This policy applies to all employees who operate company or personal vehicles in the course of business, including permanent, temporary, contract employees, interns and volunteers.
Policy elements
Our parking policy revolves around:
Our criteria and procedure for allocating parking spaces
Preserving a safe and clean parking lot
Rules for managing parking spaces
Criteria and Procedure for allocating parking spaces
We'll reserve a few parking spaces for executives and employees who drive company vehicles. Parking space for large company vehicles (e.g. trucks) may be separate from our employee parking lot.
We'll allocate our remaining parking spaces according to the following priority:
Permanently or temporarily disabled employees and pregnant women
Night shift workers
Other full-time and part-time employees
Contract employees
Interns/Trainees
Volunteers
We'll assign parking spaces according to these priorities until they are exhausted. We may reserve a few spaces for visitors that we'll clearly mark with signs.
Employees who want to receive a parking spot, should file their request with our [HR department/ facilities manager.]
Our company may grant a permit for a specific spot that may require payment at a small rate per year.
Preserving our parking lot
We expect drivers to maintain a clean and safe parking space, as they maintain their working spaces. The following rules apply at all times:
No littering is allowed.
Drivers must respect others' property.
Drivers shouldn't speed, turn carelessly or drive irresponsibly.
Employees shouldn't conduct maintenance or repair jobs to their cars while they parked in our lot, except if they can not start them.
Managing Parking spaces
Parking spaces aren't permanent benefits. We can withdraw them anytime as a result of disciplinary action or needs of people with higher priority. This benefit is valid only as long as employees are employed by our company.
Each employee can't have more than one parking space and they can not transfer their space to another person (employee or non-employee).
This policy does not restrict off-site parking. But, employees are not allowed to:
Block front or back entrances
Park at spaces reserved for the disabled
Obstruct loading/unloading of company vehicles
Occupy spaces reserved for visitors during operating hours
Park company cars illegally or at high-risk spaces (e.g. near construction sites)
If a vehicle is left unattended for more than one month, it may be towed and the vehicle's owner will have to pay storage and removal fees.
We won't assume any liability for theft, vandalism, fire or damage regarding an employees' vehicle.
Disciplinary Consequences
Any employee who is found parking in unauthorized or prohibited areas or in other ways disregard this policy will receive a warning and a written reprimand. Repeat offence will result in retraction of parking benefit. If the employee continues to disrespect this policy or in cases of serious offences, they will face disciplinary consequences up to and including termination.
 

