Employee PTO policy sample
This Employee PTO policy sample is ready to be tailored to your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies. An Employee PTO policy may also be called a vacation policy or time off policy.
Policy brief & purpose
What is an Employee PTO policy?
Our Employee PTO policy or paid time off policy refers to the amount of time off we offer to our employees per calendar year or month. Paid time off can be considered equivalent to vacation time, but employees can use it any way they want.
This policy outlines the accrual process for paid time off, and how employees can manage this benefit.
Scope
This policy applies to all employees.
Policy elements
Our company will not grant fewer days of paid leave than the law dictates. We offer [20 days of annual PTO to our full-time, permanent employees.] These employees can use their PTO from the beginning of the year, without having to wait to accrue it. Part-time employees will also receive PTO on a pro-rata basis in the same fashion. Temporary employees receive [0.6 days per month] multiplied by their contract duration. They can use their full PTO after their first [month] working with our company.
PTO is separate from parental leave or sick leave as these may be subject to different legal or company guidelines. Other kinds of leave such as bereavement leave and jury duty leave will be considered if the need arises.
You can file a request for PTO via [our HRIS.] When requesting your PTO, you needn't specify the reason of your request. If your PTO extends more than [three days], we ask you to schedule it at least [two weeks] in advance.
Please try to use your PTO throughout the year and not accumulate your entire leave for the end. Unused PTO [may not] be passed on to the next calendar year.
Employees may earn some additional PTO every year. The limit of this total time off is [25 days.]
Unpaid Leave. In some cases an employee may use up all their PTO and still need to be absent from work. In such cases, we may consider granting that employee unpaid time off. This doesn't include cases when employees need to take sick leave or parental leave. These types of leave are separate. 
 

