Sample Accident Reporting Policy
This Accident Reporting company policy sample is ready to be tailored to your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies. It can be modified as an incident reporting policy as needed.
Policy brief & purpose
Our accident reporting company policy is designed to outline the purpose and procedure for reporting any on-the-job accidents. The company is committed to enforce all health and safety guidelines to avoid such occurrences and expects employees to comply. However, accidents are sometimes inevitable. Our provision in this case is to ensure all accidents are reported timely so they can be investigated properly and preventative measures can be reviewed and reinforced.
Scope
This accident report policy affects all employees and independent contractors.
Policy elements
On-the-job accidents that must be reported include any incidents that may cause minor or severe injuries or incidents that are results of negligence or inadequate safety precautions. The victims may be employees who were injured while performing their duties or other people that were on company premises or vehicles.
Accidents must be reported as soon as possible to expedite investigation and increase likelihood of important findings. The sooner the cause or details of the accident are identified, the sooner the company can establish preventative measures for the future.
What should be reported under the Accident Reporting Policy?
The company encourages employees to report all accidents no matter how minor. Accidents that involve very minor injuries like small cuts, non-extensive bruises etc. and would not normally require any action on behalf of the company (e.g. the breaking of a drinking glass) do not have to be reported (although employees could report them if they want). On the other hand, accidents that involve (or could have involved) more severe injuries and require investigation and action from the company must be dutifully reported. Employees are obliged to report any of the following:
Fatalities
Damage to the head, skull and face
Damage to any of the senses (e.g. partial or complete loss of hearing, sight etc.)
Incapacitation or dislocation of limbs that hinder functionality and movement (including paralysis and amputation)
Damage to the skin (e.g. extensive burns, bruises or cuts)
Blows or injuries to the spine, back and ribs
Harm to the nervous system or loss of consciousness through electrocution, hypothermia etc.
Poisoning
Contamination from hazardous substances or transmission of diseases
Any other injury that requires hospitalization or medical care
Especially when an employee needs medical coverage, the accident must be reported immediately since insurance benefits may have to be approved after the investigation.
Employees are also required to report occurrences that may not have involved injuries or victims but could be potentially dangerous in that respect if repeated. These include but are not limited to:
Explosions
Slippery surfaces
Water or gas leaks
Inadequate insulation of circuits
Collapses of walls, ceilings etc.
Breaking of window glasses or frames
Procedure
When an employee witnesses or is involved in an incident they must report it to their immediate supervisor, HR department (personally, in writing or by phone if the accident occurred remotely) or through an online system if applicable, within one week. If the employee anticipates an accident due to perceived negligence or inadequate safety, they must notify their supervisors or HR department as soon as possible so the accident can be prevented.
Depending on the incident, official forms may have to be completed and submitted.
The accident and any sustained injuries must be recorded to an accident database or file.
The officials responsible must initiate an investigation or request an investigation from authorities if appropriate.
The employee who reported the accident has to cooperate if called in for questioning to provide details needed. As a general rule, the employee must provide information in the incident report as accurately as possible on the following:
The place of the accident
The date and time of the accident
The people involved or injured
Their position or involvement in the accident
Their actions immediately after the accident
Disciplinary Consequences
The company places great importance in this policy. All employees are obliged to comply. Any employee that is discovered to have been aware of a serious accident and failed to report it will face appropriate disciplinary consequences. When employees are the cause of an accident they must report it immediately to minimize legal repercussions.
 

