Substance abuse company policy
This Substance Abuse Company Policy template is ready to be tailored to your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies.
Policy brief & purpose
We will establish safeguards against drug and alcohol abuse to ensure a safe and healthy working environment. Substance abuse imposes a burden on those caught up in the abuse, but also on their co-workers. It may lead to poorer job performance and accident risks.
To mitigate these risks, we have developed this substance abuse policy to prohibit the use, possession or sale of drugs on company premises and strictly regulate the consumption of alcohol.
Scope
All job applicants, employees, contractors and part-time employees should abide by the provisions of this policy.
Policy elements
Illegal drugs, inhalants and prescription as well as over-the-counter drugs fall into the “substances” category. We will also place restrictions on alcohol consumption.
While working, you must not:
Possess, use or be under the influence of alcohol, inhalants or drugs. You can consume alcohol in moderation while in approved business meetings or social gatherings.
Sell, buy, transfer or distribute drugs or drug paraphernalia.
Use prescription drugs (e.g. medical marijuana) while working or being on company premises.
To prevent accidents and productivity losses, we implemented drug and alcohol tests for employees/candidates when:
We have made a formal job offer to the final candidate or when we are about to promote a current employee.
The circumstances surrounding a workplace accident are unclear and we want to ensure there was no substance abuse involved.
We want to test employees randomly (we will only use this practice if it's legal under state or national law.)
Especially if you are doing a safety-sensitive job (e.g. machine operator), we reserve the right to withdraw our job offer, alter your job duties or send you home for the day if you’re under the influence of drugs (e.g. muscle relaxants.) We may also terminate you if your actions create safety risks. We will determine the best disciplinary action on a case-by-case basis.
Depending on the law, you may still clear a random drug test if you test positive for prescription drugs (e.g. medical marijuana.) If your job is safety-sensitive though, you must show that you can perform your duties without problems. Your supervisor will be responsible for spotting and reporting any impairment resulting from drug use.
Disciplinary Consequences
We may invoke disciplinary action up to termination, when you:
Test positive for hard drugs (e.g. cocaine.)
Sell, or attempt to sell, any form of substance.
Use any kind of drug on company premises.
Refuse to take company mandated drug test.
Managers will decide on the appropriate disciplinary action depending on the circumstances.
 

