Violence in the workplace policy template
This Workplace Violence Company Policy template is ready to be tailored to your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies.
Policy brief & purpose
Our workplace violence policy aims to acquaint employees with what we consider workplace violence and ask them to report early signs or threats. We want to provide our employees with a safe workplace where mutual respect is a given. We ask everyone to be professional and ethical at work.
Scope
This policy applies equally to all employees, contractors, public visitors, clients and anyone else whom employees come into contact with during work.
Policy elements
“Workplace violence” refers to physical acts of violence or threats to harm a person or property. Abusive behaviors, whether verbal, psychological or physical, are also considered violence. More specifically:
Verbal abuse can be using unwelcome, embarrassing, offensive, threatening or degrading language.
Psychological abuse is an act which provokes fear or diminishes a person’s dignity or self-esteem.
Sexual abuse is any unwelcome verbal or physical assault.
We can't always predict violent acts, but we ask managers and team members to be vigilant. Report any concerns or violent acts to HR as soon as possible. Examples of violent behaviour among co workers include but are not limited to:
Intimidating or bullying others
Abusive language
Physical assault
Threatening behavior
Concealing or using a weapon
Sexual or racial harassment
We maintain the right to conduct periodic inspections, using reasonable methods, without employees’ consent or prior notice.
Grievance Procedure
All supervisors and managers are responsible to implement our policies and ensure that all procedures are free of discrimination.
Employees who witness or suspect violence, or are victims of violence, can report to HR or their immediate supervisor. We will investigate quickly and discreetly. We aim to protect victims from harassment and victimization.
Disciplinary Consequences
Our company doesn't tolerate violence. Any such behavior will trigger appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including termination, removal from boards or committees, as well as potential criminal charges.
 

