Workplace Visitor Policy
This Workplace Visitor Policy template is ready to be tailored for your company’s needs and should be considered a starting point for setting up your employment policies. The Workplace Visitor Policy may also be referred to as a Company Visitor Policy.
Policy brief & purpose
Our Workplace Visitors policy outlines our rules for receiving visitors at our premises. We want to ensure that visitors will not:
Pose threats to our premises and property
Distract employees from their work
Be exposed to danger
Scope
This policy applies to all employees. “Workplace visitors” may refer to employees’ friends and family (referred to as personal visitors) contractors, external vendors, stakeholders and the public.
This policy does not refer to remote employees or employees from other company locations. To ensure safety at work, employees who are on parental leave may enter our premises with visitor passes.
Policy elements
The following rules apply for all kinds of visitors:
Visitors should sign in at the [reception/ gate/ front-office] and show some form of identification.
Visitors will receive passess and return them to [reception/ gate/ front-office] once the visit is over.
Employees must always tend to their visitors while they are inside our premises.
Our internet usage, data protection and confidentiality policies temporarily cover our visitors while they are on company premises. They must not misuse our internet connection, disclose confidential information or take photographs of restricted areas. If they don’t conform, they may be escorted out or face prosecution if appropriate.
Visitors are allowed during working hours. After-hours visitors must have written authorization from [HR/management.]
What is the policy for personal visitors in the workplace?
As a general rule, employees may not allow access to our buildings to unauthorized personal visitors. We can make exceptions on a case-by-case basis. Employees may bring visitors to company events or after obtaining authorization from [HR/ Security Officer/ Office manager.] To avoid confusion or misunderstanding, authorization should be in writing. [HR/ Security Officer/ Office manager] may also give verbal authorization, when appropriate, but must also inform reception and security guards.
Common areas, like lobbies, may be open to visitors. We advise our employees to only permit visitors in those areas for a short time and for specific reasons. Employees are responsible for accompanying any of their underage visitors at all times.
Contractors and service vendors
Contractors, suppliers and service vendors, like IT technicians and plumbers, can enter our premises only to complete their job duties. Front-desk employees are responsible for providing contractors and vendors with badges and for instructing them to wear those badges at all times on our premises.
Other kinds of visitors
Our company may occasionally accept the following types of visitors:
Students
Investors
Customers
Job candidates
Business partners
Those visitors should receive written authorization from HR or management before entering our premises. They should always be accompanied by an employee while on company property.
Solicitation
In accordance with our non-solicitation policy, visitors must not try to proselytize employees, gather donations or request participation in activities while on our premises. Any visitors who violate this policy may be escorted out.
Deliveries
Anyone who delivers orders, mail or packages for employees should remain at the building’s reception or gate. [Front office employees/ security guards] are responsible for notifying the employee who expects the delivery. If that employee is unable to receive their order, front office employees may accept the order on the employee’s behalf upon request.
Front-office personnel must sign for and disseminate all business orders and mail.
Large deliveries (e.g. supplies) should be delivered to designated spaces (e.g. warehouses.) Security guards should check appropriate documents, like bills of lading, before allowing access to delivery vehicles.
Dangerous or restricted areas
Employees may not bring or accept visitors in areas where there are dangerous machines or chemicals, confidential records or sensitive equipment.
Representatives of regulatory bodies and stakeholders (e.g. investors) may be exempted, if they have received official authorization from [HR/ Security Officer/ Office manager.] In these cases, employees should provide visitors with the necessary badges and protective equipment to enter premises when needed.
Unauthorized visitors
Security staff who spot unauthorized visitors may ask them to leave. Visitors who misbehave (e.g. engage in hate speech, cause disruption or steal property) will be asked to leave and prosecuted if appropriate.
Employees who spot unauthorized visitors may refer them to [security/office manager.]
Disciplinary Action
Employees who violate this policy may face disciplinary consequences in proportion to their violation. HR will determine how serious an employee’s offense is and take the appropriate action:
For minor violations (e.g. bringing in personal visitors without authorization), employees may only receive verbal reprimands.
For more serious violations (e.g. bringing in unauthorized visitors who rob or damage company property), employees may face severe disciplinary actions up to and including termination.
 

